p8105_hw1_qw2282.md, before:

p8105\_hw1\_qw2282
================

Problem 1
=========

Generate a uniform distribution from 0 to 5.

``` r
rand_samp = runif(10, min = 0, max = 5)
rand_samp
```

    ##  [1] 2.5470537 1.4635729 3.0610496 0.3345532 4.3588646 3.5506194 2.0051196
    ##  [8] 1.8482695 0.4588550 3.6007795

The mean of the sample is 2.3228737.

Generate a logical vector, which indicates whether the elements in the sample are greter than 2.

``` r
rand_samp_greater_than_2 = rand_samp > 2
rand_samp_greater_than_2
```

    ##  [1]  TRUE FALSE  TRUE FALSE  TRUE  TRUE  TRUE FALSE FALSE  TRUE

The mean of the logical vector is 0.6.

Generate a character vector, which includes ten elements.

``` r
rand_char = c("My", "name", "is", "Qinyao", "how", "are", "you", "nice", "weather", "today")
```

The mean of the character vector is NA.

``` r
rand_factor = factor(c("january", "february", "march", "april", "may", "june", "july", "august", "semptember", "october"))
rand_factor
```

    ##  [1] january    february   march      april      may        june      
    ##  [7] july       august     semptember october   
    ## 10 Levels: april august february january july june march may ... semptember

Commit message:

Add answers to the problem.

p8105_hw1_qw2282.md, after:

p8105\_hw1\_qw2282
================

Problem 1
=========

Generate a uniform distribution from 0 to 5.

``` r
set.seed(1)
rand_samp = runif(10, min = 0, max = 5)
rand_samp
```

    ##  [1] 1.3275433 1.8606195 2.8642668 4.5410389 1.0084097 4.4919484 4.7233763
    ##  [8] 3.3039890 3.1455702 0.3089314

The mean of the sample is 2.7575694.

Generate a logical vector, which indicates whether the elements in the sample are greter than 2.

``` r
rand_samp_greater_than_2 = rand_samp > 2
rand_samp_greater_than_2
```

    ##  [1] FALSE FALSE  TRUE  TRUE FALSE  TRUE  TRUE  TRUE  TRUE FALSE

The mean of the logical vector is 0.6.

Generate a character vector, which includes ten elements.

``` r
rand_char = c("My", "name", "is", "Qinyao", "how", "are", "you", "nice", "weather", "today")
length(rand_char)
```

    ## [1] 10

The mean of the character vector is NA.

``` r
rand_factor = factor(c("january", "february", "march", "april", "may", "june", "july", "august", "semptember", "october"))
length(rand_factor)
```

    ## [1] 10

The mean of the character vector is NA.

Vectors of numerical values and logicals have means while the vectors of characters and factors do not have means. This is because the numerical values can be averaged into a numerical mean. And logicals, TRUEs and FALSEs, are also stored as integers. TRUEs are stored as 1s and FALSEs are stored as 0. So when the mean function is called, the mean can be calculated with either 0 or 1. However, characters and factors are strings that do not have a numerical mean.

Problem 2
=========
